+++
# Need to leave title and summary blank to avoid including content
title = " "

summary = " "

share = false
date = "24 Jan 2019"	
# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++


### Assignment 0


*(Due 28/01/2019)*

0.1 Positron, a fundamental anti-particle predicted by Dirac, has a mass that is same as that of electron ($m_e$) but  it has an opposite charge ($+e$). Positrons  are emitted by Flouride-18 and used in commercial imaging for patients. Positronium is an analogue to hydrogen atom where the proton is substituted by a positron. Choose a coordinate system of your choice and a) Write down the non-relativistic Hamiltonian for  positronium, b) Sketch a qualitative distribution of positronic and electronic wavefunctions, and c) Will this system be stable? If so, derive a formula for its energy levels. (10 pts)

0.2 For a hydrogen atom with only 3 hydrogenic basis functions --- 1s, 2s, 2p$\_x$ --- write down the 1-electron, 2-electron, and 3-electron Hilbert-space basis functions. Assuming that the hydrogenic basis functions are orthogonal, show that the 2-electron Hilbert-space basis functions are also orthogonal. (5 pts)

0.3 If the uknown nuclear-electron wavefunction is expressed as: 
$$\Psi(\mathbf{r},\mathbf{R}) =  \sum_{k=1,2;i=1,2,3,4}  \chi\_k^i (\mathbf R) \Psi\_k(\mathbf{r};\mathbf{R}) $$
where $\Psi\_k(\mathbf{r};\mathbf{R})$ are eigenfunctions of $\hat{H}^{el}$. For the cases of (i) Exact solution, (ii) Born-Oppenheimer approximation, and (iii) Adiabatic approximation, what is the matrix equation dimensionality that one needs to solve to obtain the nuclear wavefunctions $\chi_k^i(\mathbf R)$.For block diagonal matrices, provide the dimensions of individual blocks. Note that the index $i$ provides additional flexibility to the nuclear wavefunction, you may consider $i$ to represent different vibrational levels for a given electronic level $k$. (5 pts)

**Addendum to 0.3:** You can assume that 
$$\chi\_k^i (\mathbf R) = c\_k^i \phi^i(\mathbf R),$$ where $\phi^i(\mathbf R)$ are another set of nuclear wavefunctions, but their functional forms are known and they form a orthonormal set (for example Harmonic oscillator basis functions).  This set does not carry the index $k$, and the $k$-dependence is carried over to the unknown expansion coefficients $c\_k^i$. Now, what is matrix equation dimension that is required for solving for $c\_k^i$ for the three situations discussed above. (The answers will be same as before)



